docker run : creates and run docker container from a specified image, local mhr ma shi yin, download swl tl, port binding, volume mounts and environment variables twy ko define loh ya.


docker build : docker file ka ny pee tok dockcer image build tr. 
docker images : docker image list and size twy br twy pr tl pop
docker ps : docker container list, stop htr tr twy pr pr chin yin -a
docker stop : stop container, pass id or name
docker rm : remove container from system, running so yin m ya wo , ya chin yin -f htae, ae tr so force tl.
docker rmi : delete image.
docker logs : log of a docker container, pass id or name, -f so yin continuous
docker network : manages docker networks, allow containers to communicate with each other, provides sub commands for creating deleting and inspecting networks
docker volume : manage docker volumes, which are used to persit data generated by containers,
docker-compose : a command-line tool for defining and managing multi-container docker applications


Docker orchestration so tr br ll

process of managing and coordinating multiple docker containers to work together as a distributed application. 
Ae tok different docker isntances twy ka one single logical unit a nay nae a lote lote ag lote pay tr pop.
ae mhr use tae term twy 
cluster : cluster so tr docker hosts twy that are connected and managed together, (not docker containers)
service : service is s desired state for a containerized application. It defines how many instances of a container should be running, the container image, resource requirements, networking configuration, and other parameters. Orchestration tools ensure that the desired state of the service is maintained by automatically managing containers on the cluster.
scaling : lo lr yin instance twy nae service twy ko increase tr, or decrease tr
load balancing : we know
networking : ae instance twy a chin chin nae a pyin service twy ane network tr
health monitoring and self-healing : container twy ko monitor tl, and then something phyt yin restart tl pop.
kyan tr twy shi thay tl rolling update and roll backs toe service discovery toe.




